---
slug: all-maker
title: Why all-maker
authors: [strahinja]
tags: [crafting, lifestyle]
description: Where I come from and how I came to be who I am.
---

Many ancestors of mine have been craftsman and artisans. Smiths, clockmakers, musicians. I come from a coal-mining county where almost everyone knows their way around tools and building.

True blue-collar environment in a poor but [proud country](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia). Work hard party hard kind of mentality.

<!-- truncate -->

## The logo

I've always enjoyed learning new crafts and disciplines that produce something tangible. But resisted posting on social media. So in an effort to marry the two—I decided to use some of that crafting knowledge and make this website. And decided it needed a logo. My own stamp of identity.

One of the first projects I ever made was a belt buckle. I cut it out of aluminum, somewhat funnily, with an angle grinder. Why—I had aluminum lying close by. Wore the buckle for years.

It depicted an anvil with a smith's hammer in front of it. A symbol of makers, craftsmen, and artists. That idea carried over to this logo.

The letters on the hammer simply stand for my name in Serbian Cyrillic- *СТРАХИЊА*. Back in school days, friends shortended it to Stra and it stuck. *Strah* means *fear* in Serbian. Strahinja loosely translates to *fearsome* or *fearless*.

I come from the town of [Lazarevac](https://serbia.com/lazarevac-where-history-meets-nature-on-belgrades-doorstep/). Its surrounding hills are carpeted with thick forests and lush meadows. They are full of game. On the other hand, as a mining county near the famous river [Kolubara](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Kolubara)—the coal-black is evident. Hence the green and the black.

## ADHD brain

Never confirmed - strongly suspected. ;)

My mind constantly has parallel streams of topics running amok. Pulling on a particular thread runs the risk of chasing the rabbit.

This presented some challenges in early school days. However, I grew fond of reading, learned to love the language, and ended up studying literature at uni.

I feel this gave me structure, in writing, learning, thinking, and life. The original hardware is still there—just a bit more structured and focused.

I remain a man of many interests, though. Jack of all trades...

## The maker mentality

The main point is—I like making things. Currently, I make leather and metal stuff. But also music on my guitar. This website. Or jsut playing building games like [Valheim](https://valheim.fandom.com/wiki/Valheim_Wiki).

I make docs and design user journeys for a living. I even made a family, and made them a home too with my lovely wife. ❤️

Learning is fun, growing is fulfilling, and life is what you make it.
